we're going to see how this goes um
we're doing something different today
cuz I got very inspired my best friends
is building a Game Boy and there's a
milling machine at his
college where he gets to Mill circuit
boards and I thought it would be fun to
copy Moritz
Klein's uh voltage controlled oscillator
series and try to get this into Kad now
and then maybe you know do the routing
and trace it out and maybe even cut it
tonight or you know in the next couple
days the other thing that I'm I'm a
little loud the other thing that I might
want to do is I saw PCB
way or something like this um but let's
actually just ask Chad GPT um I am
building
the I how do I get it made by
some
generate them
Gerbers but it's cold as [__] out here
so I don't know how long I'm going to
spend out here cuz I'm out here at
kindall Square again and you know it's
windy out here and it's sunny but like
not where I'm
at uh no but like who like who do okay
here we
jlcpcb see this is the other one but
we're jumping the gun by looking at this
thing oh I've seen
this why are they all in China we should
build one in America man because the
thing is it's just going to take a long
time to get toight that's that's I guess
what I'm worried
about wow 64 layers that's absurd
um these pcbs are really nice
too all right so anyways uh oh look
uh
hi okay
so let's just get started with and I've
done this before but let's just get
started with I just want to get
down
this and then the
buffer okay so and then down here he has
all the components so he might as well
just I this is the cool thing about uh
Kad here's the op amp I guess for the
buffer here's the
diode I love that man they just have
every part
imagin uh okay I think I can just do c
right
no
C unpolarized passive so that's good
stuff uh and then we just set the value
to it this is one thing that I remember
was really
janky and also I don't know can am I
allowed to do that or do I have to pick
a a specific model of something like
what if I put in 0.1
andf
dude I swear they play the exact same
playlist here every single day it's kind
of annoying actually I need gloves guys
my hands are getting cold someone send
me gloves okay fine well let's just all
right so we
have one
microfarad one nanofarads and then bunch
of resistors so I think we just do R we
just go boop boop oh wait
what
Boop uh that's not what I
wanted okay so we have our four
resistors we have our oh wait we need
one more
capacitor oh but we need to change the
value of it okay we'll change the value
of
it 3.5 mimet or
I forget which one of these is
uh um which one of these is a normal box
table I'm pretty sure it's a
3.5
yeah oh this is quarter inch I mean I
don't even know okay so I'm building a v
vco voltage controlled a in Kad and
following the guide that has this as a
component is this something I can put
into or should I I feel like I should
right like you can and should include
the Jack socket in your Kad design if
it's part of your
vco okay so let's try to look up Jack
[Music]
connector oh
audio is that what I
want let's look up let's just look up
3.5
mm well the search on this was kind of
slow
audio wait why is that's an audio
processing thing that's not what I
want audio jack oh connector
Audio Two PS three PS oh cool it
actually looks like the thing guys check
that out oh [__] this thing's kind of
sucky that's sick dude I love this
digital Fabrica this fabrication stuff
is
sweet I want to Branch out man I want to
do all this [__] yo drop a drop a
comment if you want to see more Kad
[__] um so what we up to here what do I
need I think I I think I need mono let's
just do mono for all right cool so we
got our Jack and I think that's all our
components so now we can start wiring
[__] together
um so let's go here I actually know this
Circuit by heart because I've done this
so many times but last time I tried this
I fell into the Trap of thinking that I
needed my uh what is it ERC or DRC to be
like to be able to simulate the circuit
because I wanted to verify that all
these parts would work together and then
I wouldn't like I don't know not work
but for right now since I'm going to be
able to just buy these parts and like um
um uh hold on I want to
actually he has kits though why don't I
just buy the kit I feel like that's
lame but I don't know why
that's I feel like it's actually
not 60 is like pretty good what's the
how long does it take to get to
me I mean this is pretty cool but all
right I don't want to get distracted by
this
CU I don't know how long it's going to
take and I feel like it's cooler to not
do a a kit I mean kits are sweet but we
already have all this set up so might as
well um
this
is this is the parts list where should I
buy this
stuff
Amazon okay what if I just look up like
one of these like the opamp is this the
opamp no that's the Schmid trigger what
if I just look that up on Amazon oh
wait uh am I allowed to go on Amazon
probably not I don't like that all right
I'm not going to go on Amazon uh I'm
just going to look up
this all right so you can just buy this
it's
$10 yeah and I understand how this
circuit kind of works this is
probably
h i don't have to think about how this
is
working all right but we're following
not that I can get lost in all sorts of
[__] but right now let's just get
wiring I'm so bad at this wiring thing I
forget how to do it is this the wiring
one highlight wires add components add a
wire okay we slick wire mode
oh okay so we do
this we go
there how do I move oh there we go wait
but that doesn't let me move
horizontally uh this is kind of
annoying okay also wait hold on if I typ
M nice all right so we get this out of
here let's just get our minimal we want
R1
here we want this
here then we want this big
point and then we want to add a
Jin
okay cool since that's the
core um oh and then we need the
buffer buffer buffer buffer buffer
buffer so I forget how to do this all
right where's our here's our op and we
need to figure out where do we connect
it into the circuit does he have a
diagram of
that oh and then we need a voltage
divider okay so that's what with the two
resistors
for so this is only one of them
right this is a quad
opamp but we only get one of the things
right I
see u2a that's what I'm guessing is it
right cuz it's it says it's part of a
quad
op um which I love that they have
keywords here that's so
cool
um okay I need to figure out where to
put the buffer I think the buffer should
be
the is it this or is it the output of
the Schmid trigger let's let's figure it
out
I mean I feel like I should reason about
it but you know what
sometimes I don't want to also guys is
anyone else experiencing this when I
press space on YouTube now it doesn't
actually play my video sometimes you
might be tempted to just attach an audio
deck socket right where we plugged our
oscilloscope in see how's my volume
generally that's going in the right
direction but sadly it won't work at
all appears provide our capacitor is
never being charged because all of the
current is leaving through our audio
jack so by trying to listen to the
oscillation we're actively stopping it
because we are tempering with the
construction of the whole thing to avoid
doing that we will need to use a buffer
buffers also work with pressure sensors
but they use them to Simply mirror or
copy the voltage levels that they detect
and since no current is flowing into the
sensors they are not interfering with
what they're attached to that's why they
are a perfect fit for our problem here
with a buffer we can leave our
oscillator structually intact and
working while still being able to listen
in with our sound system to build a
buffer I'm going to use an op amp set up
like this this way we'll have our sensor
on this side while over here we'll get
our copy of the sensed voltage levels
sounds simple enough but there is a
catch this is the pinout diagram for a
tl074 which is four opms in one chip now
with our 40106 we had a power and a
ground connector but with this chip
there's power power and negative power
what's up with that well the thing about
voltages is that they're always just
relative if we talk about a 9 volt
battery for example all we really know
is that the voltage difference between
the two terminals is going to be 9 volts
if your battery is fresh so what we're
basically doing there is that we're
picking a pressure level to call 0 volts
and then Vols into
play is really just necessary for a
buffer when they have to cop rails but
if those voltage levels get close to
those rails the buffer can't accurately
reproduce them anymore so while we could
just hook it up to our positive and
ground rails we should instead use POS
and negative rails just to provide it
with enough headro and prevent
Distortion outright if you have a dual
power supply like this one that's not a
problem but what if you want to use
batteries instead thankfully that's
totally doable you just need to connect
two 9vt batteries like this oh actually
you know what I want to I feel like it
probably does I want to see if there's
9vt batteries in this
thing dude this making chips is [__]
rad 9V uh what if I look up 9V
battery
that's kind of
cool okay well
whatever fck it's cold guys this one
becomes your the positive terminal of
this one is now your plus n volts and
the other two combin to become your new
ground easy so let's add our negative
power ra to the RedBoard and set up the
op
buffer okay so now that our buffer is
done we need to connect it to our
oscillator core wait hold
on which one is the off
amp this is the
diode what is that that's the
capacitor
so this is the
opamp right where we pluged in our
oscilloscope so can we listen to it
finally we
could okay so that's connected
to the
capacitor let's go back to uh
initial
build which is six of those in one
single chip
are to get working at all we need to
connect this pin to the power rail while
this pin needs to be tied to ground then
we can basically choose any of these
Inver to be the one we'll be working
with I'm picking one down here there's
one catch to using this we need to
connect all the unused inputs to round
because otherwise they might pick up
static noise and make the in we do use
act rationally so first let's set up
that
chip next I'll put in the bod
orientation is important here if you
look at it closely you'll notice this a
thick black strip on one side of it this
represents the line of di symbol meaning
the current can only flow from here to
here for the capacitor the orientation
doesn't matter but beware that's not
true for every Ty I'm using a so wait so
which one was the
input
okay so the thing that's next to
ground we did oriented backwards I can't
tell cuz
what no no that's
fine okay so output
is okay so let's see you notice this
thick back on one side of it this
represents the line symbol meaning the
current can only flow from here to
here
for
oh yeah okay so that's right the
capacitor the orientation doesn't matter
but beware that's not true for every
type I'm using so wait so where should
the capacitor go the capacitor should be
connected
to the third one a capacitor here which
is nonpolarized electrolytic ones on the
other end
are polarized make sure to keep this in
mind I'm confused to be
[Music]
honest then I'll add in the resistor
here the orientation also does not
matter finally I'll connect my power
supply to the
breadboards right okay
okay and now this should
already be oscillating to check on that
I'll use an oscilloscope an oscilloscope
works pretty much like the sensor on
ourm trigger it's detecting pressure
levels and then drawing them onto a
screen this makes it a very useful tool
for monitoring and troubleshooting to
use it I'll first have to connect this
wire to our circuit's
ground and then connect this wire to
wherever we want to monitor the voltage
levels in our case that would be right
here at the intersection of Schmid
trigger input capacitor and drain
resistor wish I could zoom
in okay yeah and yes we're actually
seeing what we expected to see it going
first a near instant rise in pressure
followed by a slow Decline and this
waveform just repeats
indefinitely it's so cold out here so
our basic oscillator seems to be working
but what good is an oscillator that you
can't hear right so let's figure out how
to connect this to a sound system or
headphones whatever you prefer you might
be tempted to just attach an audio deck
circuit right where we plugged our
osilloscope in generally that's going in
the right direction but sadly it won't
work at all let me
demonstrate
the wave just disappears and that
actually makes a lot of sense because
what we're effectively doing is
providing an additional path for our
proverbial water to flow into that way
our capacitor is never being charged
because all of the current is leaving
through our audio jack so by trying to
listen to the oscillation we're actively
stopping it because we are tempering
with the construction of the whole thing
to avoid doing that we will need to use
a buffer buffers also work with pressure
sensors but they use them to Simply
mirror or copy the voltage levels that
they detect and since no current is
flowing into the sensors they
ground connector but with this chip
there's power and then measure
everything Rel but if with that's not a
problem but what if you
want very to understand why that's
necessary to our our negative power rail
to the breadboard and set up the op
buffer
okay
okay yeah so you connect those two
together that makes sense this is the
pinout diagram for a t74 so let's go
back then he connects the positive
to which is
I'm so bad at this yeah no no no that's
clear that's like where the resistors at
all right so let's try
that
hey
um let put this down
here okay so then the first thing to do
wait do we need to flip it I feel like
we need to flip it can I flip
it you know what who cares
d
d the positive connects to
this oh guys guys are we crazy or
what okay so now here's this goes to the
audio
jack so how does the audio jack work
does one side go to
ground
o I'm Blinded By the
Light oh we need the voltage
divid a few more precautions to take the
first one of which being to install a
coupling capacitor to understand why
it's necessary we'll have to talk a bit
about offet wait I want to check Micro
Center there's no way they have this
part that would be
insane what is it called
again this is the Schmid trigger yeah
there's just no
way
okay he doesn't actually say how to hook
up the
Jack I feel like voltages remember how
we said that electrical oscillations are
just swings between two voltage levels
the thing about that is that those
voltage levels could be up here or even
down here in the negatives it doesn't
matter you'd still have the same
oscillation in waveform but its Center
is shifted either upwards or downwards
normally signals that Center would be
around Z volts so right here in the
middle but these two I think is just an
RC what we call an offet voltage plus 5
for this one minus 5 for this one and if
we look at the graph for our oscillator
again this is also off sensor that is
not ideal for audio signals because it
might cause an amplifier to distort the
sound so what we need to do is remove
any offset voltage from our oscillation
thankfully doing that is really easy we
just need two components all right so I
think that that's just all we need is in
between here so I think we just need to
do this uh yeah it's cap right so let's
rotate this
thing did I get it
H
unacceptable why isn't controls you
there dude Kat is so
[Music]
fun
oh thanks
guys
okay a capacitor and a resistor set up
like this here's how it works first
imagine two pipes being connected with a
balloon kind of between them like this
now no water can get from one pipe into
the other since it's blocked by the
balloon but and that's the kicker water
from here can still push in this
direction by bending and stretching the
balloon causing a flow in the other pipe
by displacement and vice versa next
we'll have to bring in our resistor
after the coupling Point going straight
to ground this act like a kind of
equalizing valve and that's how we knock
because now imagine we apply a steady 5
volts from this side then on this side
we'll read zero volt after a short
amount of time why well we pushing water
into the balloon with a constant force
from here the balloon is stretching into
this pipe pushing water in this
direction if we didn't have the
equalizing valve here there'd be nowhere
to go for that water but since we do
have it the excess water can drain out
through this narrow pipe out of the
system until the pressure is neutralized
and no water is actively flowing anymore
okay so now imagine that the pressure on
this side starts oscillating let's say
between four and 6 volts when we start
to go below 5 Vols on this side the
balloon will begin Contracting basically
sucking the water in this pipe to the
left this will create a negative
pressure level here like as if you're
sucking on a straw making the voltage
drop below 0 volts then once we've
completed the bottom half of our
waveform we go above 5 Vols on this side
and our balloon will inflate and stretch
out again pushing the water here to the
right and the pressure will go positive
making the voltage rise above 0 volts so
we've reentered our oscillation around
the0 volts line about if water can
escape through here doesn't that mess
with our oscillation well technically
yes but practically we're choosing a Nar
enough pipe here to make the effect on
quick pressure changes negligible don't
take my word for it though let's try it
out I'll add a 1 microfarad capacitor
and a 100K Ohm resistor after our
buffer and now let's hook our
oscilloscope up to this
point where are we putting the
oscope putting it right here
right ideally our Sawtooth will look as
pointy and sharp as ever looks good
enough for me so can we listen in now
well we're almost there but as a final
touch we should decrease the volume of
our illation because a very loud signal
like this can again D mature I want to
also
uh for my read
me we have get
right
uh
weo uh following morit
Klein uh uh bco Series in
Kat with the
hope of eventually
Milling or ordering
it creating or ordering
it cool cool let's uh that's it that's
cool I don't know what is all this
[__] post name Jane bro that's
right I don't think that that's that
problematic
um we should we should call
it or I don't know how this should be
filed but I feel like this is
fine
okay my hands are so cold to do that we
will use a voltage divider which is just
two resistors set up like this here's
the input and over here is the output if
R1 and R2 are the same size okay let's
just do
that
uh
I was telling my friend it' be so nice
if they if the cad Community had the
same kind of like formatting tools that
code does I know it's not as easy to do
but it's so nice that like all this
stuff is messy if I just press like
shift alt F and it just like cleans up
the diagram so that the logic is as
pretty as possible that pretty
nice size the output voltage will be
half of what the input voltage is how
does it work let's use our analogy again
so we have a pipe on this side where
water is being pushed in this Direction
with a specific amount of force
attached here is a narrow pipe which
represents R1 followed by another white
pipe then down here there's this other
narrow pipe representing R2 where water
can exit the pipe system finally imagine
we have a pressure sensor attached right
here okay so first think about what
would happen if our2 was completely
closed off our sensor here would tell us
that the pressure in this pipe is
exactly the same as the pressure in this
pipe over here because the pushing force
from here has no else to go it has to
accumulate over here on the other hand
imagine R2 would just be a wide opening
then the pressure here would be zero
because it would all Escape through here
but what happens if R2 is neither
completely closed off nor wide open well
then the pressure here would accumulate
to varying degrees depending on the
narrowness of the two resistor paths so
if pipe R1 P R2 is narrow most of the
pressure will be retained here but if
it's the reverse the pressure level will
be only a tiny fraction and if R1 and R2
are identical the pressure here will be
exactly half of what we sent in here so
since an oscillation is really just a
swing between voltage levels we should
be able to scale or divide it down by
using this method to see if that works
let's first check the size of our
original oscillation on the oscilloscope
so you can see that the oscillation is
between the bottom of this square and
the top of this
square that it has a height of three
squares and now I'll set up our voltage
divider with two 100K ohm resistors and
I'm expecting to see the size of that
oscillation to be cut down by
half yeah that looks about right now the
oscillation is about 1 and a half
squares high so now we finally go to
connect this
to I'm curious do I have GH on
here let's
see let's see if this
works
I mean pow shell is not the worst thing
ever like people love to hate because of
the impurity but like big [__]
deal all right let's see if thing
works I mean that just worked really
well Windows haters be like but but but
but okay so what we out what we up to
bro we up to
oh but do I have
my yeah but I actually do want the uh
command that I like hold
on this
one
do this but then I want to change it
to oh yeah oh this this might be all
right let's see how this works because
this was a nightmare to get working in
WSL
I
gotta oh that just worked so
well ew what the [__]
ew why is that sticky e
E I don't like that at
all e what is
that this couch I'm on is
sticky dude I don't know why it's sticky
there's some [__] on this
couch nasty ass
couch all right let's figure this out
out so now I should be able to push my
repo no commits yeah let's uh
okay init wait I want to add a link to
Mor's
thing all right that's good stuff now
let's do it
again
now see can I open that
up
nice all right that's good
stuff what's up bro no harm
pun all right
so I don't know what he's doing with the
audio jack
my guess is that he just puts one to
the and you have it one to ground right
yeah
okay so we're just going to make another
ground
here
um I don't know is uh let's let's
ask is a twole audio jack
symmetric or can
either side go to
ground typically
not okay the sleeve goes to
ground
all right
cool okay so I'm going to say episode
one uh episode one schematic is
done oh does this just keep regenerating
entire zip
okay so we need to fix
that right so we finished the
schematic also
get
cool good
stuff what else do we need let's just
look at episode two what else did we
need because it's too high pitch right
now well the frequency is really a bit
too high
but
look at the waveform I picked up from
after that voltage divider the top out
is weirdly rounded this is not ideal
because we don't want to put out a
misshapen wave to fix it we'll just use
two 10K resistors instead of 100K for
divider I'm not going to go into detail
on why that works because that's a topic
for another video small hint though we
accidentally created a weird band pass
filter oh wait here here was the audio
jack that's
perfect right it's not in frame though I
can't tell which is which but presumably
I did it we the B pass
filter I don't understand why it's not
symmetrical great it's looking pointy
and sharp
again okay so now let's talk about
oscillation frequency remember when I
said that a sth wave pitch is easy to
manipulate because it's all dependent on
the wave second phase that's going to
come in handy know since that second
phase is really just this capacitor
discharging through this resistor if
it's discharging fast the is high if
it's discharging slow the pitch is low
the speed of that discharging process is
determined by exactly two factors the
capacitor size and the resistor
resistance value the bigger the balloon
the more water it can store and the
longer T release the water the tighter
this pipe the more it restricts the
water flow let's try this out by first
swapping the 2.2 narat capacitor for a 1
microfarad one that's about 450 times
bigger yeah that's pretty
big and as you can hear the frequency is
also a lot lower almost in the LFO range
next I'll swap the old capacitor back in
and then switch our 100K drain resistor
for a 1 Mega ohm one that's 10 times
bigger and so the pitch isn't lowered as
much as before so which route do we take
changing the capacitance or changing the
resistance to be honest that's pretty
much a non- choice for two reasons
reason one is that increasing the
capacitance not only changes the second
phase but also the first phase of a wave
along with it yeah if the capacitor is
big enough charging it will take more
and more time until our wave morphs into
a weird triangle shape let's check it
out by installing a really big capacitor
weird triangular shape and as you can
see the charging process now takes so
long that the first phas gets seriously
bent this way this not only changes the
sound but also messes with the pitch but
apart from that and more importantly
changing the capacitor can only be done
manually by taking the old one out and
installing a new one and that's probably
not the most fun way to make music which
leaves us with only one true option
changing the resistance value here we
thankfully have way more options than
just changing it by hand we could use
use a light dependent resistor where the
resistance value depends on the amount
of light that shines onto it we could
also use a that would be cool which is
the same idea but reacting to
temperature
instead but the classic idea would be to
use a transistor which in this scenario
works like a voltage controlled resistor
before we get into that let's take a
look at what a transistor is exactly
there's a lot of different types of
transistors but the one we're looking at
here is called the npn bip we need to
add
a potentiometer we have the audio jack
so we're good
there we need a bunch of resistors we
need five resistors and
this oh
no
oh that's
cool this site looks
sussy who owns this snap Eda CU they
look
sus maybe they're not my name is Natasha
I'm founder of snap Eda snapa is a
platform for electronics design and we
provide millions of blueprints that
Engineers can build on top of to design
better electronic products faster so as
an elect engineer I worked at a all
right should I just sign
up I'm good with
that wait hold
on oh bro I decided to switch up for
today cuz my friend he has access to
this Fab Lab so I want to make some
circuits but hold on I got to I got to
uh
[__] I hate
capture okay nice all right we should be
able
to all right so yeah so check it out
check it out all this is our schematic
we're following um we're following this
series where he builds a synth so we're
building a
synth um slowly we're going to get
everything on his channel into Kad
exactly how he did
it I wonder if I have to I wonder what
happens if
I oh hold
on
uh
Gmail but actually I'm outside right now
and is starting to get real cold I'm
sure it's not as cold cold as Poland but
starting to get real cold out
here
did I
um sorry hold on guys getting this is
real boring I know but it's not letting
me download what I
want
what resend the
validation wow it sent me something but
it didn't send me the oh here I see
it all right I got the verification
email
guys
nice all right cool so now I just close
all
this
all right now we should be able to
download this
thing V6 and
later okay so now I want to go to
Source Kad
libraries this
thing then I want
to I feel like it's not going to be hard
to figure out how to import this
thing
I hopefully they don't do any [__]
to
me well let's
see go to manager symbol
library right I did this before I go
here I go to preferences I go to manage
symbol library then I go to
add then I go to
Libs this
one and then I just click that and we
have it and then I say
okay what the hell is going on
here okay
then we go to manage footprint libraries
and I think we got the footprints too
right so then we go to this
thing okay maybe we didn't oh that's
kind of [__] up though right I thought
we were supposed to get the
footprints what does this even mean we
found an alternate
part oh wait here we go wait downloads o
what is
this oh wow they they have a packager
that's kind of cool dude these things
are so
stupid I don't want any of this don't do
that download it two times but where is
the is the mod
the what is a footprint
file okay well I guess we'll cross that
bridge when we get to
it um all right so let's try it do I
have my part now
nice bipolar npn transistor
baby
which is called the mouthful which in
turn is why most people just call them
npn transistors compared to all the
components we discussed last time these
are definitely more complex and water
analogy might get pushed a bit beyond
its limits here but let's try to apply
it nonetheless so imagine we have
a like this there's three this one we
call the collector this one is the base
and this one down here is called the
emitter right in the middle we have this
seal blocking any water flow from here
to here
oh yeah wait I want to
add okay so let's
uh
R are we needed
five all right we're getting fast at
this then now I need a
pot I wish I was high on pot
news I'm so
funny
um and we already have the Jack so we're
good
but it can move horizontally though
there is a spring mechanism holding it
in place so pushing it in this direction
requires some amount of force with that
in mind let's check out two possible
scenarios first imagine that there's a
pump pushing water downwards from up
here while we are keeping the pressure
levels neutral here and here since our
seal is blocking any water from flowing
in this direction we will only be
raising the pressure at this point not
very exciting but once we add in a
second water pump pushing from this side
things get a lot more interesting
because if that pump is strong enough I
wonder if anyone has C that would be
pretty cool Kad
CI no no no no no no
no like like that would be so
cool like it like you get like it gets a
binary of Kat then it runs the uh design
checker
yeah it runs the rule Checker that's
sick
man oh because then you have a team
working on this schematic and as you
make changes to it that's [__]
cool uh okay let's go back to work to
the right opening this Junction and
allowing water to pass through so in
effect this downward flow is controlled
by this kind of angle of flow as long as
there's a
because of that transistors like these
are often used as electrical switches
imagine a simple switch like this one
but instead of operating it by hand we
can operate it with a
current whenever the voltage increases
by one our oscillators pitch should go
up one octave to achieve this the
relationship between voltage input and
frequency output also needs to be
exponential because we are basically
mapping voltages to notes and because
our oscillator pitch is determined by
how open our transistor is we would need
that transistor to open up exponentially
as the voltage at its base increases
linearly sounds difficult how do we do
that well thankfully it's extremely easy
remember how I said that the transistor
enters it linear region if there's at
least 0.7 volts the base turns out that
if we stay below that amount of pressure
we are now in a strange not on not off
state where the transistor behaves
completely different
here first something the resistance
between collector and all right yeah
let's get to it work in real
life how to close the seal but with
every bit of an increase in pressure at
the base the spring loses that control
to the displacement effect the more
water is passing through from colletive
the weaker the spring that'ss basically
and coincidentally that spring weakness
is increasing exponentially if the base
pressure increases linearly strange
stuff okay enough Theory let's see all
that even works in real life so we will
replace our drain resistor with this
bc548 which is just a standard general
purpose npn transistor this leg is the
collector this one's the base and over
here is the emit we will have to the
junction of cap is there a way to
package this up
uh
yeah cuz we want to be able to have
people use this without having to go in
and install everything themselves so in
Ableton there's a thing called collect
all and save that takes all of the
assets of the thing and packages it up
nicely I'm wondering if we sensor while
the emitter needs to lead directly to
ground
BR the emitter needs to lead directly to
ground okay the emitter goes to ground
what did he
replace bro I'm so bad well the emitter
needs to lead directly to
ground next we will have to find a way
to apply a voltage to the base to open
the transistor while we could just build
multiple different voltage dividers for
that there is a way more comfortable
solution using a
potentiometer these things can be used
as variable resistors that you control
using this knob but and that's the handy
part they can also be set up as variable
voltage dividers to see how that works
let's imagine we open one up inside we
would find two things a round track of
resistive material with connectors on
each side plus what's called a wiper
this wiper makes contact with the track
and also has a connector it can be moved
move to any position on the resistive
track now the resistance value between
the two track connectors is always going
to stay exactly the same that's why it's
used to identify a potentiometer
cool so I think what we need to do is
uh over
here how do I know what is the are there
labeled
uh what is going on here
it says it has a footprint for it so I
guess we're
good
um oh wait no no this is the label I
think the one with the
arrow is the emitter that would make
sense
right
co uh I'm just going to move it because
I don't really know
the
hell why is that dot
there
okay that's cool and so then what we
have is what five volts and then we just
use the so wait let's move the
potentiometer because I know what that
does Okay
so so I'm pretty sure
that just do
this and then I think that that goes to
like a 5 volts or something but I don't
know as a 10K 20K 100K but if you look
at the resistance between any of those
connectors and the wiper connector
you'll find find that that's completely
dependent on the wiper position the
logic is really simple the closer the
wiper is to a track connector the lower
the resistance is going to be between
the two so if the wiper is dead in the
middle you'll have 50% of the total
resistance between each track connector
and the wiper from here you can move it
in either direction and by that shift
the ratio to be whatever you want it to
be by now you might be able to see how
that relates to our voltage divider you
can think of it this way this point
which we called our output matches up
with the Wier while the two resistors
match up with these two pieces of the
resistor track remember how we said that
the relation between to ground okay
let's see how this works in practice
I'll use this 100K ohm potentiometer
though the Size Doesn't Really Matter
for purposes since we only care about
voltage here not current for the input
I'll just use the 12 volts from our
power
Rail and before we connect the wiper to
our transistor let's first connect it to
a multimeter so that we can verify
everything working as
expected as you can see we are now able
wait wait what did he do to produce any
voltage our transistor let's first
connect it to a multimeter so that way
all purpose
since we only care about voltage here
not current for the input I'll just use
the 12 volts from our power rail okay so
how do I do that in
Kad how do I set up a power
rail
IAD right it's it's
special
oh don't I have to do that for the opamp
and everything or do those implicitly
get
um the [__] is going on
here
cool and before we connect the wiper to
our transistor let's first connect it to
a multimeter so that we can verify
everything's working as
expected as you can see we are now able
to produce any voltage between 0 and 12
Vols so I'd say we're good to connect
this to our transistor now one caveat
though to prevent creating a short
circuit I'll put a 100K Ohm resistor
between our potentiometer and the
transistor let's just use this
one
this way only a small amount of current
can flow while the voltage at the base
is
unaffected if we don't do this we might
see some smoke when we completely open
the voltage divider and push everything
my power supply has through our
transistor and that's not the most
pleasant
[Music]
experience as you can hear our
oscillator is completely dead in the
upper voltage range that's because the
transistor is way too open there but as
soon as I get down to about 550
molts nice it suddenly starts
oscillating that's sweet the knob is
really finicky but you can go from
really high pitched down to just
periodic
clicks and the range for that is between
approximately 350 and 550
MTS this is exactly the transistors not
really on not really off region I talked
about
earlier so far so good but if the usable
voltage range for the transistor is only
between 350 and 550 MTS aren't we going
to run into trouble if we connect our
[Music]
sequencer
okay it seems like I just keep losing
connection I'm just going to end it I
think and I'm going to go
home
okay